On September 11th, 2001, the Twin Towers would both be hit by United Airlines 11 and United Airlines 175. Just 7 days earlier, On September 4th, 2001, a band by the name of “Explosions In The Sky” would release their 2nd album called “The Plane Will Crash Tomorrow”. Unbeknownst to the band, they had just begun one of the biggest Post Rock mysteries.

Explosions In The Sky is an American Post Rock band, formed in the year 1999 in Austin, Texas, consisting of four members: Chris, Michael, Munaf, and Mark. The band would quickly make a name for itself thanks to their live shows. 
A Brooklyn, New York-based record label called Temporary Residence Limited, otherwise known as TRL, would sign on Explosions In The Sky after only hearing half of their demo tape. 
After that, the band released their debut album called “How Strange, Innocence”, on January 17th, 2000.

In the year 2000, the band conceived the idea of an album that would be called “The Plane Will Crash Tomorrow”. For the next year, the band would work on writing and producing the album. Finally, on September 4th, 2001, the album was released.
Following the release of the album, which was only their 2nd album, it was well-received by fans. However, unbeknownst to the band members, just 7 days later, the Twin Towers would be victim of a terrorist attack.
Not long after, the band would receive a ton of backlash for their album. Keep in mind that this was before the vast majority of people had access to incredibly detailed online encyclopedias like Wikipedia. All the public would see is that a band by the name of Explosions In The Sky released an album called “The Plane Will Crash Tomorrow” the same month as the New York terrorist attacks. Additionally, the album cover depicts a plane and fire on the ground.
Rumors would circulate that the album was released the day before the terrorist attacks, on September 10th, 2001, instead of September 4th, 2001. 
In interviews, the band would consistently deny any connection to the terrorist attacks. 
The band’s bass player, Michael James, would be detained in an airport due to his guitar having the name of the band’s latest album “The Plane Will Crash Tomorrow” on it. He then had to explain to airport security what the name meant, and following that he was let go.

Following all the backlash, the band decided to rename the album to “Those Who Tell the Truth Shall Die, Those Who Tell the Truth Shall Live Forever”.

The band would make a steady career for themselves, releasing 9 more albums, with the most recent one being released on September 15th, 2023.
Though the album is no longer called “The Plane Will Crash Tomorrow”, the tale of the album will forever go down in Post-Rock history.
